=== Static Memory Cheating ===

Cheating static memory is very easy. Between two game runs the memory value of
interest stays at the same memory location. In general this is everything which
is not stored on the heap or the stack.

All you need is the value name, absolute memory address, value type, wish
value, key bindings, the initial activation state and optional checks. The
checks are used for stability as in game main menu these could be on invalid
value or with a new game binary the location could have changed.

The value is set to the wish value every second. The syscall "ptrace" is used
for that.


=== Static Memory Discovery ===

We always recommend the tool "scanmem" for static memory search. It uses
"ptrace" as well and is a very sophisticated CLI tool. If the value is
displayed the same way it is stored, it is easy to find it by entering its
value as numbers into scanmem until there is a single match.

If you are guessing that there is a static bool, then try to search for 0 for
false and 1 for true. It may take quite some cycles to reduce the number of
matches. C++ and standard C likely use the u8 datatype for bool but there is no
guarantee for that. If you only see a bar, then try the commands "snapshot",
"<", ">" and "=". If the bar decreases but you can't find it with "<", try the
inverse logic. Please note that scanmem requires root permission if not run in
the same process group as the game.


=== Static Memory Adaption ===

Adapting static memory is quite difficult as the game code accesses it directly
without a library call. We need to set a memory breakpoint with a debugger like
"gdb" upon write to the found memory address. The moment the debugger halts the
game process, we dump the related assembly code. The difficulty is then to find
an unique similar code part in another binary of the game like different
compiler options, distribution or other game version. There we have to set a
code breakpoint with the debugger to see which memory address it accesses. This
address has to be set into the config afterwards.

In most cases it is easier to do the discovery with scanmem again.
